And just like that, you're done
with the first module. Congrats on hitting this
exciting milestone. You're one step closer to becoming a rockstar in
project management. Let's revisit the concepts
we've learned so far. We started by discussing
how project management is the application of
knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to meet the project requirements and
achieve the desired outcome. Then we learned that
project management is alive in nearly every
industry and company. So you're working on an incredibly useful and versatile
certification. We also learned
what a project is: A unique endeavor and
temporary pursuit, carefully planned out to
achieve a particular goal. Hopefully by now, you're
familiar with the idea that every project has
a defined time frame, cost, scope, and
dedicated resources. We've covered some
broad concepts and key terms that will help you become a successful
project manager, and we've gone over how to search for jobs when that time comes. We've also discussed how
to effectively translate your past experiences
into talking points for why you'll be a
successful project manager. We talked about how you
can transfer skills from your previous job into your
new project management role, and how that'll
really set you apart. Everything from juggling
a to-do list to budgeting for a loved
one's birthday party demonstrates that you
probably already have some of the skills to be a
phenomenal project manager. But no worries if you don't. We're starting from scratch here. By the end of this course, you'll have the skills, but also the experience, and knowledge to find
the role you want. Whether that's contract work, internships, or general
project management positions, you'll be able to figure out
what's the best fit for you. And as we go forward, I want to encourage you
to keep thinking about what kind of work you might
like to do in the future. And let's not forget the
most exciting news we learned about
project management: just about everyone
needs a project manager. This position's in high demand, and that demand
just keeps growing. Wow, okay. That's a lot of
ground we covered, and we've just barely
scratched the surface. I hope you've enjoyed
the course so far because it's about
to get even more fun. Coming up, we have your
first graded assignment, and I know you'll ace it. Remember, take your
time and relax. Trust yourself. You've got this. Don't forget, you can always review your
notes and readings or go back and rewatch some of the videos if you're
unsure about an answer. Good luck, and I'll
see you again soon.