Welcome back. By now you've
drafted the project summary, goals, and deliverables
in the project charter, and you've identified details in the project charter where stakeholders need
to be in alignment. In this video, I'll
review SMART goals and discuss how to add specificity
to your project goals. I'll also share some
tips for researching industry success metrics
which are helpful in adding specificity to
your goals and deliverables. Being able to write specific, measurable goals is
an important part of project management and a great way to demonstrate your project management skills
to potential employers. Then, in the following activity, you'll review
supporting materials and update the goals
and deliverables you've drafted in the project
charter to make them SMART. Ready to begin? Let's go. During the
initiation phase, some of the project
goals might be broad because not all of the project details have
been determined. While it's okay to
have broader goals, it's helpful to add
specificity where possible. That's because
clarifying project goals early on can help you
avoid misalignment and gain a clearer
understanding of the project's scope,
budget, and timeline. Remember, project goals are the desired outcomes
of the project. Outlining clear
and specific goals is an important step in creating an effective project charter and crucial to launching
a successful project, so you'll need to be
able to accurately identify whether or not
a goal has been met. When your goals are clear, you'll be able to determine
your project deliverables. Project deliverables
are specific tasks or outcomes that contribute
to the completion of a goal. In your career as
a project manager, you will likely encounter
stakeholders who only vaguely describe the outcomes they want for a given project. For example, a stakeholder might tell you that they'd
like more customers to use a certain service
or they'd like to sell more units of
a particular product. These are fine goals, but
they're not very specific. You don't know how
many more customers, what kind of customers, or how many units that you'll
need in order to meet goals. As a project manager, it's your role to ensure
that the project goals are well-defined so that you and your team have a clear roadmap. This not only allows
you to focus, but also eliminates wasted time and miscommunication
going forward. You can create clearly-outlined
goals with the help of the SMART method we discussed
earlier in this program. The SMART method helps turn your project goals
into SMART goals. Remember, this means
your goals are specific, measurable, attainable,
relevant, and time-bound. These qualities can help you
measure your success more accurately and allow you to make more precise adjustments
along the way. Let's review some best
practices for ensuring your project goals
are also SMART goals. To make a goal more specific, make sure that it provides
answers to questions like "What am I aiming to accomplish?" and "What are the requirements and constraints of this goal?" Here's a tip I like to use
to add specificity to goals. Look for words in your goals
that might be subjective or based on an opinion, such as
bigger, better, or faster. Once you've identified
subjective words, connect with your stakeholders to agree on a
definition of what it actually means to make something bigger or better or faster. What does bigger or better
entail in practice? Faster by how much, specifically? The SMART method helps
you make your goals more specific by making
them measurable. For example, if your stakeholder wants to increase
company profits, ask, "By how much?" Do they want to
increase profits by five percent? By 30 percent? Adding numbers and
figures to your goal makes it a lot easier to know
when you've achieved it. If you're having trouble
making a goal measurable, research how others in your
industry quantify success. This is called benchmarking, which refers to evaluating success
against the standard. For example, there
are lots of ways to measure success in
the restaurant industry. You might search online for information using queries like "How do restaurants
measure success?" or "How do you evaluate
employee training sessions?" You'll likely find a
number of results. Some common metrics include table turnover rate, or the average length of time that a guest spends at their table; prime cost, which
is the labor cost plus the total cost of
goods like food and drink; and average check amount, which is the average amount of money
guests spend on a given meal. Most industries—from
the hospitality industry to the entertainment industry to the construction industry—will have their own
metrics for success. That includes the
tech industry too. Metrics are a big part of how we measure success
here at Google. SMART goals are also
attainable, which means that the goal is challenging
but not impossible to reach. Ask yourself and the
team, "Can it be done?" Do you have the time, resources, and people available to complete the goal on
time and within budget? If not, you'll need to make
some changes to your goals. And all project goals
should be relevant. Ask yourself, "Does
it make sense for us as a company or as a project
team to pursue this goal?" One best practice for determining the relevance of your
project goals is to notice how closely your project
goals align with the wider goals of your
company or organization. Here at Google, we use a
tool for organization-wide goal setting called objectives
and key results, or OKRs. Other organizations might use a different term for
their own goal setting. For us, OKRs combine a goal and a metric to
determine a measurable outcome. For example, one of Sauce
and Spoon's broader objectives is to make fresh, quick food for the working families
in its community. So a relevant goal
for the Sauce and Spoon tablet rollout might
be to decrease customer checkout time by 10 percent, on average, in the first six
weeks after implementation. This project goal helps the restaurant chain
reach its larger goal: to provide quick
meals for guests. The last part of
the SMART framework is to make your goal time-bound. You'll want to add a
deadline to your goal so that you know when it's
supposed to be completed. Okay. Let's review. SMART stands for specific, measurable, attainable,
relevant, and time-bound. If your goals are SMART, you can feel confident about including them in
your project charter. In the upcoming activity, you'll collect information from the supporting materials that will help you turn the goals you drafted into SMART goals. You'll also identify
any additional goals and add them to the
project charter. Ready to get started? Let's get to work
on the activity. Then, meet me in the next video to discuss scope,
benefits, and costs.