Hello again. Throughout the program, you have the chance to practice project
management skills in a few different ways. In addition to multiple choice and
short answer quizzes, you complete hands on activities
to apply what you've learned. You'll solve common project problems
in real world situations and create the kinds of artifacts
project managers use every day. Completing these hands on activities is
really important to your success in this program. They'll give you practical experience
that can help you describe your skills in interviews or use them to manage projects
more effectively in your personal or professional life. To help you prepare, I'll introduce
you to two different types of hands on activities that we prepared for you. I'll also share some tips and tricks that
will let you get the most out of them. And one type of activity, you review
a project management scenario and follow step by step instructions
to move the project forward. Your job could be to learn about
stakeholders, assigned task owners or organized documents, so
they're easy to find. You can recognize these exercises as
quizzes with activity in the title. When you finish an activity, we'll take
you through an exemplar of the completed assignment that you can
compare to your own work. Be sure to review these
exemplars carefully, so you know what you did well and
how you can improve next time. Keep in mind that some activities
can have more than one right answer, just like real problems can
have more than one solution. The exemplars for these activities
explain one way of doing things, but they also point out where you
could do things differently. This helps you check your approach to
an assignment, not just your answers. Certain activities also include quiz
questions that help you check your work. These quizzes can be graded or
ungraded and give you another way to measure your
progress and expand your knowledge. Another type of hands on activity is
the peer review or peer graded assignment. These activities follow a similar format
to the first, you will review of project management scenario and complete
a set of step by step instructions. But there's one major difference, your
classmates will grade your assignment and you'll grade theirs. For each peer review, you need to
grade at least two submissions, but you can grade more if you want. This peer grading process is a key part of
the learning experience for this program. That's because it gives you
objective feedback on your work and let you know how others
are approaching the same challenges. Peer grading gives you the chance to learn
not just from us, the instructors but from each other as well. To grade each other's work,
you will use what's known as a rubric, a rubric as a checklist of items
your assignment must include, with each item worth
a certain number of points. You typically need to score at least 80%
correct to pass a peer graded assignment. So for example if a rubric has 10 points,
you need a minimum of 8 points to pass. In addition to using these rubrics to
grade your peers, you can review them before you submit your own assignments,
so you understand how you'll be graded. Peer grading is also important
because it lets you give and receive qualitative feedback. For example, if a peer does well,
you could tell them they did a great job refining a goal or that you like
their creative solution to a problem. Positive feedback helps you and
your peers learn about your strength and motivates you to do your best work. On the other hand,
it's just as important if not more so to learn from your mistakes. If a peer get something wrong, be sure to
leave thoughtful, constructive feedback, so they understand why they
didn't get full credit. That way, they'll know what to review and
how to improve, so they can become better project managers. And don't worry, we'll give you some tips
on how to leave constructive feedback for each activity. Peer review is a valuable tool, but
unlike other assessments in the program, it may take some time
to receive your grades. Remember that real people
aren't as fast as computers, so we can take up to 10 days for
grades to appear. Additionally, it can take some time
before there are assignments available for you to grade. Be patient, your peers may be working
through the course at a different pace and remember you can always move on
to other items in the course and come back if you need to. If for any reason you aren't able
to access a peer submission or if a submission is incomplete,
you can skip it and go to a different one. To learn how to do this,
continue onto the optional reading. This reading will also tell you more
about the peer review process and link you to helpful resources on topics
like where to find your feedback and how to change your sharing settings and
google docs. So be sure to check it out. Great. Now that you know more about some of
the hands on activities to find throughout the program, you're ready to get started.