[MUSIC] Hi, I'm Chris. I'm a diversity program
manager here at Google. So I lead diversity programming and
strategy for one of our business units here at Google. I focus in on diversity programming for
our most underrepresented Googlers like our Black plus our Latinx and
our Native populations here at Google. In a manager world where every single
day I'm thinking about who needs to be involved in the projects that I work on, who will care to invest in the programs
that I want to roll out, right? Because I need to get buy in for
certain programs to get green lit. Right, so I'm always thinking about
how I'm organizing my materials. I'm always thinking about packaging and
telling a story behind all of it so I can continue to do
the great work that I do. An artifact is anything that you
physically put together that describes or showcases the work that you're doing. So that could be a document that
is, say, an executive brief or just an overview of the work
that you're doing or it could be something as tactical as
a roles and responsibilities sheet, right? So breaking down
who on your team is handling what and to whom you need to present, it's really important to keep that
organized because it's not just for my own use, but it's also for
anyone who I engage, right? So a stakeholder or someone who
needs to sign off on a project or it might be my teammates on something. I often bring in either volunteers or full-time help to help build
the programs that I run. Lastly, say we have an outside vendor, they need to understand where they
fit into to the larger picture but also what they tactically need to
do to make the program successful. So keeping artifacts allows you to
have the best possible outcome and all program management elements. And regardless of that piece, you also
want to be able to showcase your work at the end, so that when it comes
time to possibly get more budget for a program or to take the program's next
level, you have a good base line to really understand from where you
started and how far you've come. When you have all those artifacts,
it's really important to be able to speak to how those artifacts
allowed you to be successful. The artifacts are really what
tangibly show someone during a job interview that you were the one that
did the work to make the program or the project successful, right? So if you just talk about a project or
a program at a high level, in a job interview, the interviewer
might want to know more detail, and the artifacts allow you to show that
detail. Allow you to show not only what happened with the project and how far it
came, but also your contributions to it. And it physically shows your ability to
conduct the entire process from start to finish. You're the quarterback, right, and
the quarterback also holds the playbook. And if you don't have the playbook, who
on the team is going to know what to do other than you? You run the show. And so effectively, you want to make sure
that you're able to showcase, in any setting, whether it be while you're
currently working on the project or later or during an interview. All that you did to make the program or
project successful.