[MUSIC] Hi, my name is Afsheen. I'm the Director of Core Capacity at
Google, where we support some of our key products such as Google Maps, Google
Photos, Google Search, and many more. Ultimately, what we're doing is
we're managing the supply and demand for our products in the resource
space, so specifically: compute, storage, machine learning, and
networking resources. Ultimately, our goal is
to provide the fuel for these products so
we can support our billions of users. I often look at establishing
the project goals, and tied to the goals is
discussing the criteria. What's a successful project? What are the measurables
involved in the project space? And lastly, I always want to look at
the stakeholders that are involved—maybe our clients,
our key stakeholders, and so on—and make sure that they're thought of
during the formation of the project. I'm meeting with the stakeholders,
I'm trying to understand what they're trying to achieve, what we're trying
to achieve, and the goal, if you will, is a critical aspect of setting the scope. When I'm trying to set
the goals of a project, I apply very in depth, active listening. I'm doing a lot of socializing
with other stakeholders. I'm meeting a lot of players to
understand what's the landscape like. It's an active listening experience. I have a recent example of
a project that in my view did not do the proper initiation phase. Last week, in fact,
a group approached me with a process or a feature that they were going to launch. I reviewed it and
immediately realized that they were so far off. They had not discussed the topic
with any of my team members or myself, and they were day minus one from launching
the feature. It was a total miss. It really illustrates the point
about when you initiate a project, you can't invest enough time
in meeting with stakeholders, meeting with your colleagues,
listening to them—actively listening. Someone taught me recently the value of
building that "listening to learn" muscle. And in the project initiation phase,
to me, that is such a valuable talent, there are those that have it, there are those that have learned it, and
there those who will never do it. And I believe it's a trainable skill, but it requires you to really slow down and
look at the landscape in front of you.