Hi there. Welcome to Applying Project
Management in the Real World. If you've joined us for this program's
previous courses, then you've developed a solid foundation of project
management knowledge and skills. Those courses covered how a project
progresses through the initiation, planning, execution, and closing stages. They also taught how to manage projects
using different methodologies and approaches, like Agile and Scrum. If you haven't completed
the previous courses, we recommend checking them out before
starting this course to ensure that you're ready to work through all
of the upcoming activities. As you progress through this course, you'll create project documents
based on an imagined scenario. You'll learn details through
conversations, emails, and other materials, just as you
would in a real-world scenario. By the end of this course, you'll
have developed a portfolio of project management documents that will demonstrate
your ability to manage stakeholders and teams, organize plans, and
communicate project details. All of this can be valuable
when applying for jobs or working on projects in
your current line of work. Before we go any further, I want to
take a few minutes to introduce myself. My name is Dan, and
I'm a Program Manager here at Google, and I'll be your instructor for this course. At Google, I work on a team that promotes
responsible practices in designing, building, and applying artificial
intelligence—also known as AI—and machine learning. I support teams in adopting tools and
techniques they can use to evaluate their machine learning models and determine
whether they are performing equitably. I love this role because I get to support
teams in building products that work for our users. Before my current role, I worked on
the Google AI Residency Program team. This is a rotational program for people
who are interested in doing AI research but who come from
nontraditional backgrounds. This work was compelling to me because I
personally didn't have any experience with AI or
machine learning before coming to Google. This just goes to show that if you
have strong project management skills, you often don't need to be a subject
matter expert in a given domain to work in that field. Prior to my time at Google, I worked
outside of tech—first as a math teacher, and then as a sponsorship coordinator for
a professional soccer team. Throughout my career, I've always
been passionate about education, whether that's teaching
students in the classroom or teaching developers how to
ethically implement AI systems, so I'm pretty excited about
leading you through this course. It should be a lot of fun. Now let's get right into the scenario that
will apply to all of the activities in this course. In this imagined scenario,
a small restaurant chain called Sauce and Spoon wants to meet their annual
growth and expansion goals. As one way to meet these goals, they have
decided to launch a pilot project to test out the impact of installing
new tabletop menu tablets. The new menu tablets will allow
the restaurant to serve more guests in less time and will provide valuable data that will help
Sauce and Spoon meet its business goals. The company just hired Peta as their
first in-house project manager to oversee the tablet rollout at two of
the restaurant chain's five locations. Throughout the course, you'll observe Peta
as she guides her team through planning and executing the project deliverables. Although she has five years of
project management experience, Peta hasn't managed
a restaurant project before. You'll get to follow the project through
its life cycle as Peta learns about the restaurant industry,
determines the goals of the project, negotiates with stakeholders,
and much more. Along the way, you'll record details of
the project to use in course activities. You'll also evaluate Peta's project
management skills as she works to complete this project in scope,
on time, and within budget. You'll learn what works and
what doesn't, and how to problem solve your
way through a project. As you progress through the course,
we'll review and practice key project management concepts,
which include analyzing materials to identify project requirements,
solve problems, and manage stakeholders, applying important negotiation
techniques and influencing skills, listening with empathy when
working with a team, and practicing your stakeholder
communication skills. We'll explore these
concepts in more depth, and I'll explain how each concept applies
to the Sauce and Spoon project. Each activity will contain guiding
questions to help you create common project documents that you can
speak to in a job interview and utilize throughout your career. As you work through these activities, you may want to take notes on some
of the information you learn. Feel free to use whichever
tool you prefer, whether that's the Coursera
note-taking system or another method. In the upcoming videos, I'll explain the
project in more detail and share project management best practices so that you can
complete the associated course activities. Are you ready? Let's go.