[MUSIC] Hi, I'm Torie, and I'm an education
program manager at Google. Specifically, I work on our digital
literacy curriculum, called Applied Digital Skills, that helps learners of all ages
learn the practical digital skills needed for the jobs of today and tomorrow. So scope is important because if
you have a well-defined scope at the beginning of a project, it'll help
make sure that your team members, your stakeholders are all aligned and
on the same page right from the start, and you can avoid any issues down the line
that may come up that you might not have been aware of. Some challenges of staying within scope
could be what we like to call "scope creep," and these things can happen if, for example, you have some
stakeholders that have some certain needs, desires, or requests that may
actually end up changing the scope. Scope creep is when the scope changes
after you've already started the project. And this can be really challenging to
manage if you don't keep an eye on it from the beginning. I was recently working on a project where
we were hoping to actually reach underserved communities with our
digital literacy curriculum, and the initial project scope started off focusing on middle and
high school students. But at some point down the line after
the project started, there were some stakeholders who actually wanted to
expand the audience to adult learners. And so we had some trouble trying
to figure out how we were going to manage that. Were we going to change the scope? Were we going to keep it the same? And ultimately,
we decided to keep the scope the same and referenced back to our original
goal in the beginning. Because if you think about it, changing
the audience would make the project goals and our strategies for reaching those
audiences drastically different. So ultimately,
we ended up keeping the scope and communicating that to our stakeholders. Some best practices for managing scope is
just make sure you document everything in the beginning and share it with all of
your stakeholders and team members, and make sure everybody's
in agreement on that scope. There are times where the scope may
need to change, and that's okay. But you have to be able to make sure that
you can also change and potentially change your timeline, your resources, or even the
budget to accommodate that scope change.