Hi! We're so excited
that you're here. I'm Emilio, and I'm a
Program Manager on the Responsible Innovation
team here at Google, and I'd like to officially
welcome you to Google's Certificate Program
in Project Management. Let's start with a
simple exercise. Take a moment and
think about some of the different tasks that
you've completed in your life. Maybe you planned your wedding or a birthday party, or you filed your
annual tax returns. Maybe you moved from
one state to another, or maybe you're the
family member who, somehow, every year, is tasked with organizing the annual
family reunion. Believe it or not,
you've been developing all kinds of skills through
these tasks that'll help you become a successful
project manager for any organization or
your own business. With this program in project
management by Google, we've put together a set of
courses, activities, quizzes, and exercises that'll teach you the fundamentals of project
management, and of course, help you get a job or
advance in your career. Wondering how I started
my own career in project management?
Well, in college, I always gravitated towards
things that were more hands-on and action-oriented
and less theoretical. I wanted to make an impact in
whichever career I took on. My first job out
of college was as a Spanish and leadership teacher in Los Angeles, California. My main objective in guiding the student leadership team at the school was to identify, mobilize, and inspire
the student leaders. After two years of teaching, I realized that
the moments when I felt the most energized were when I was
building a vision for how to get a big project done or when I was working to
bring different groups together around a common goal. That's when I realized
I had a lot of core project management
skills, and I could focus on growing and developing them in
the business world. I'm grateful that I get to be here for the start
of your journey. When I was first starting
to think about my career, project management
wasn't even on my radar. It was one of those
professions that I didn't even know existed until I entered the business
world and experienced how great of a need there is for
folks who are organized, action-oriented,
diligent, and strategic. I hope that by the
end of this program, you'll be as excited
as I am about the prospects of a career
in project management. Let's get into it. We'll start with an important question. What exactly is
project management? Project management
is the application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to meet the project requirements and
achieve the desired outcome. It's possible that you've
been project managing every day on some level
without even knowing it. In this course, you'll learn
how to hone those skills to become a truly
great project manager. The awesome thing about project management
is that it spans a lot of industries
and company types, and it doesn't require
deep, technical knowledge. This means that any job or life experience
you've gained so far will help you in building
those skills to become successful in a project
management career. There are a lot of people
around the world like you who are hoping to
learn the skills to get a project management role. Whatever your reason
for being here, we're glad you've joined us. This program is rooted in a belief that a
strong foundation in project management
can help anyone start a great career
as a project manager. This program includes six industry-relevant
courses that focus on topics like project
management fundamentals; goals, objectives, and deliverables; risk
management; team dynamics; project management methodologies; data-driven decision
making; and more. Each course is made up of personal anecdotes, reading
materials, quizzes, and case studies, and you can go through the
program at your own pace, skip the sections that
you might already know, and review the videos again if you need a refresher. You will be doing a lot
of hands-on learning. You'll build project
plans and timelines. You'll learn how
to manage budgets and meet the needs of
the people involved in the project, and you'll learn different project
methodologies like Agile, Scrum, and Waterfall. You'll use tools like Kanban and learn about project management
software like Asana. You also develop
your soft skills, some of which you
likely already have. Don't worry, even if you aren't quite sure how
to tap into them yet, we'll explore which skills are transferable to a
project management role. Above all, this program will help get you
ready for a new job. But we're taking it
one step further. When you complete this program, you'll have the
opportunity to share your work with Google and other top employers aiming to hire project management
professionals, and the best part is, you'll have professional
work examples you can share with them to
showcase what you've learned. Along the way, you'll hear
from Google employees like me. We'll share personal
stories about how we became project managers and how our foundations in project management
launched our careers. We'll also share what
we do at work every day and give you tips
for job interviews. We've got a truly
amazing group of course instructors
for you to learn from. Ready to meet them? Hi, I'm JuAnne, a Senior Program Manager on Cloud
Security Programs. I'm your instructor for Course 2, where we'll learn more
about what's needed to set the stage for a
successful project. Hey there. My name's Rowena, a Senior Program Manager
in Google Cloud. I'm your instructor for Course 3, Project Planning,
Putting It All Together, where we'll learn about the importance of thorough
project planning, identifying key milestones
and dependencies, documenting project
plans, scheduling, budgeting, and risk management. I'm Elita, a Senior Engineering Program
Manager at Google, and I'm your instructor for
Course 4, Project Execution: Running a Project.
Where we'll learn about communicating effectively,
managing risks, understanding team
dynamics, using data to inform decision-making,
and tracking progress. Hi, I'm Sue. I'm a Technical Program Manager for Google Support Platform. I'm your instructor for Course 5, Agile Project Management.
Where we'll gain a deeper understanding of
Agile project management, including principles
and practices, the benefits and costs of
Agile transformations, the dynamics of Agile teams, and the process of running
Sprints and Releases. And I'm Dan, a Program Manager
in Google Research. I'm really excited to be your
instructor for Course 6, Applying Project Management
in the Real World, where we'll take all
the knowledge, skills, and understanding you've
built up throughout this certificate and apply it to an advanced project scenario. Ready to get started? Let's go.