Okay. Let's start
with an example. Imagine you've planned
a surprise party for your best friend's birthday. You've been working
on it for a month, and finally, it's the big day. You show up at the
restaurant where the party is happening,
but there's an issue. The host says the reservation was canceled because
no one confirmed. A friend shows up with
the birthday cake, but you'd asked them
to bring cupcakes. Another friend texts you saying they're looking
forward to seeing everyone tomorrow
night. Tomorrow? And then, in the middle of
all the confusion, you look over to see that
your best friend has already been seated on the
other side of the restaurant. Not exactly the surprise
party you had in mind. What happened? Poor
communication happened. The friend who made the
reservation forgot to tell you to confirm 24
hours in advance. The friend who ordered the
cake never saw your email asking them to get
cupcakes, and you assumed everyone in the
group text message got the update that the party
was on Friday, not Saturday. Fortunately, your best friend appreciate the effort and
was surprised anyway. But whilst you and your
best friend can have a good laugh about the
party-planning breakdown, if something like
this happens at work, your boss and coworkers
might not think the same. Communication is very
important to every project. I'd even argue that it's the most important tool in making sure your
project runs smoothly. Many times, what contributes to the success or failure
of a project team comes down to whether or
not everyone understands what's happening and how their tasks contribute
to the project's goals. As project manager,
you play a big part in making sure everyone knows what their roles and tasks are. You're also the person
that team members come to when they're just in
need of a quick answer. Being able to communicate
clearly and effectively is key. It's important to remember that without effective
communication, the project is at risk of missing important opportunities or
even failing altogether. During a project I
recently worked on, my stakeholders allocated a few design specialists
to work with me. In the first week of the project, I noticed that one
specialist wasn't attending any of the
project meetings. I decided to approach the
individual about their absence. When asked, they stated that they were well
over capacity with the current workload
and were unable to commit to the short deadlines
I had been assigning. There were a couple of breakdowns
in communication here. First, between a specialist
and their manager, and second, between a specialist and me, the project manager. Ideally, the specialist and their manager would
have communicated better with each other about the specialist's ability
to take on the workload. If I had not communicated
with the specialist, their continued absence at meetings could have resulted
in lots of lost time, the project being delayed,
or not being able to deliver the project
in a satisfactory way. As it turned out, we only
ended up losing a week of work due to the lack
of communication. However, since I
followed up quickly, we were able to pivot and assign another specialist
to the project. We know communication
is very important, but what is
communication exactly? To put it simply, communication is the
flow of information. It includes everything
that's shared, how it's shared, and with whom. Good effective communication
is always clear, honest, relevant, and frequent,
but not too frequent. There is such a thing as
information overload. Effective communication makes it possible for your project to run on time and up to the expectations outlined
in the project plan. Take full advantage of tools like meetings, emails, phone calls, written documents, and
formal presentations, and make sure they are
accessible by everyone. It's also important to
remember that communication is not a one-time event
or one-way route. It needs to happen throughout the entire life cycle
of the project, from the project team
and stakeholders, as well as from you. Be sure to clarify goals
and client expectations, follow up on action items, and communicate delays as
the project progresses. This will help you avoid
issues and setbacks. As the project manager, you're responsible for creating a consistent flow of communication
throughout the project, setting the tone for
team communication and working to make sure
everyone's on the same page, every step of the way, gives your project the
best chance to succeed. Okay. Hopefully, it's clear
that communication is incredibly important
to manage a project. Coming up, I'll show you how to make a communication
plan that will help you manage all
important communication. See you in a bit.