Hi there, welcome. This course is all about
initiating a project successfully. If you haven't gone through
our foundational course yet, we recommend checking it out. It covers the foundations of project
management and contains lots of helpful information for anyone wanting
to start a career in this field. There are lots of people around the world
like you who are hoping to learn the skills to get
a project management role. Maybe you prefer to take
a specialized certification rather than a four-year degree. Maybe you're looking for an affordable
way to stand out among competition. Maybe you are interested
in changing your career. Whatever your reason for being here,
we're glad you've joined us. This program is rooted in the belief
that a strong foundation in project management can help anyone start
a great career as a project manager. Before we begin this course,
let me introduce myself. My name is JuAnne, and
I'll be your instructor for this course. As a Senior Program Manager at Google for
the past eight years, I have worked on cross-functional
projects involving product managers, software engineers,
user experience designers, network operations, customer support, and more to build software used at Google and
used by Google Cloud customers. I began my career working as a liaison
between customers and engineers, documenting requirements on
software development projects. As I became involved in larger projects, I started to manage the timelines of
the projects and coordinate the work of the different teams that had to get
involved to finish the project. Before I knew it,
I was the de facto project manager. I have accumulated my knowledge
through formal and informal training, finding practical application in finance,
insurance, and tech companies. I'm super excited to be sharing with
you more about the project management discipline. During this course, you'll learn all
the steps for kicking off a project. We'll start with an overview of
initiation, which is the phase that allows ideas to come together and form
the beginnings of a plan for a project. You identify the individual components
of initiation like the project scope, goals, and deliverables. You'll also learn how to measure
the success of a project. This is a super important
piece of the puzzle. After all, you want to be able to meet or
exceed all of the requirements for a successful project, right? Later, we'll talk about how
to identify stakeholders. Stakeholders have a direct interest in
the project's completion and success. We'll teach you about some really helpful
tools you can use to define project roles and responsibilities and more tools and resources you typically
need to complete the work of a project. Finally, we'll introduce documentation
that can help your team prepare for project kickoff. Exciting, right? The skills you learn in this course will
help you start projects of your own. We can't wait to get into
these topics with you. So let's get started. Meet me in the next video.