[MUSIC] Hello, and
welcome to Agile Project Management. So far this program has covered
the foundations of project management and what it takes to be a project manager. We've explored the phases of the project
lifecycle, initiation, planning, execution, and closing, and we've reviewed lots of different
tools and techniques for managing and communicating your plans. We've also discussed how to handle
various challenges, risks, and issues that come up along the way. If you've completed all the courses so
far, congratulations! If you're just now joining, welcome. Either way, you're on your way to a new or maybe just improved career
in project management. Now that you have a solid foundation
on what it takes to manage a project, I'm going to share with you one of the most popular approaches
to delivering projects: Agile. In my opinion,
Agile is also the most interesting and flexible approach to project management. Agile is not a project management
methodology in and of itself but more of an overarching approach and
philosophy to deliver value to customers,
which is the goal of most projects. Despite not being a specific methodology,
there are lots of frameworks and methods under the Agile umbrella. In this course, I'll help prepare you for
a career in Agile project management. I'll provide you with a history of Agile,
and introduce you to a specific Agile
delivery framework called Scrum. I'll teach you about the core
roles that make up a Scrum Team, and finally, I'll cover some best
practices and real-world scenarios where you can use the Agile approach
to lead your project to success. And I should probably introduce myself.
My name is Sue, and I'm a Senior Technical Program Manager
with Google's support platform. We build the products
you use to get user support from nearly all of Google's products. I started at Google in 2014, and
worked on product reliability, making sure Google's products are up and
running all the time for billions of people across
the world who depend on them. Before Google, I worked at many
companies of different types and sizes where I ran and worked on projects
using Waterfall, Agile, and everything in between. I started my career as a software engineer
working on cell phone technology, but I didn't have a degree
in computer science. Since then, I've had many different roles,
but program management is my passion because it brings all of the disciplines
together to deliver amazing outcomes for the customers and equally amazing results for
the business. I still remember the "aha" moment
I had when I discovered Agile, and I'm excited to share it with you. I hope you're ready to discover Agile and
experience your own "aha" moment. In the next video, we'll start learning
the basics of Agile. Meet you there.