Hi. My name's Clennita, and I'm a Senior Engineering
Program Manager at Google. So the planning phase of
project management, is essentially the time
where you take a step back and you reflect on what's
the scope of the project. So what are the problems
that we need to solve? When you look at
planning for projects, it's critical to understanding
what you're building, who you're building for, and how long you
have to build it. We look at our risk, to make sure that we know what
potentially could derail the project.
And if possible, create mitigation that will circumvent any risk
that we may come in contact with. Or, just be
aware of things like scope. We also look at timing. Is there a deadline
that we need to hit? And if so, do we have enough
time to hit that deadline? We assess the work
that needs to be done, to understand if the work that needs to be done in order
to meet the requirements fits into the timeline
that we have. We also look at testing—what the testing plan looks like, what is success
going to look like—so we know what the target is so that when we hit the
target and we validate it, we already know what
metrics we expect to get. I'm a planner—it's
just in my nature. Planning sets a tone for what we're actually
doing together. It creates a sense of team. The planning also
aligns everybody, to understand what it is
we're all shooting for, what it is our goals are, what success is
going to look like. It really is the
place where we come together to ensure
that we're all on the same page, and we're all
going in the same direction. When you don't have
that, things get lost. You're not talking
to the right people, you have miscommunications, things get delayed and you
don't really understand why, people aren't comfortable
communicating what progress is happening, they really aren't comfortable in communicating when
their problem comes up. So you want to just set a tone of "We're all in this together, we're all going to be
successful together, and we are going to
run into roadblocks, we are going to
run into problems, but we're going to work it out and figure it out as a team."