[MUSIC] In this course we'll focus
on making our work scale. So what do we mean when
we talk about scale? Being able to scale what we do means that
we can keep achieving larger impacts with the same amount of
effort when a system scales. Well an increase in the amount
of work it needs to do can be accommodated by an increase in capacity. For example, if the web application
your company provides is scalable, that it can handle an increase
in the number of people using it by adding more
servers to serve requests. In short,
a scalable system is a flexible one. Adding more computers to the pool of
servers that are serving the website can be a very simple or very hard operation depending on
how your infrastructure is set up. To figure out how scalable your
current setup is, you can ask yourself questions like will adding more servers
increase the capacity of the service? How are new servers prepared,
installed, and configured? How quickly can you set up new
computers to get them ready to be used? Could you deploy a hundred servers with
the same IT team that you have today? Or would you need to hire more
people to get it done faster? Would all the deployed servers be
configured exactly the same way? Scaling isn't just about website
serving content of course. If your company is rapidly
hiring a lot of new employees, you'll need to have an onboarding
process that can scale as needed. And as you keep adding new computers to
the network, you'll need to make sure that your system administration process can
scale to the growing needs of the company. This can include tasks like a applying
the latest security policies and patches while making sure users' needs
still get addressed all while more and more users join the network without
new support staff to back you up. If making this happen sounds
a bit like magic right now, remember that we're here to share the
secret ingredient with you, automation. Automation is an essential tool for keeping up with the infrastructure
needs of a growing business. By using the right automation tools, we can get a lot more done
in the same amount of time. For example, we could deploy a whole new
server by running a single command and letting the automation
take care of the rest. We could also create a batch of user
accounts with all the necessary permissions based on data
already stored in the database, eliminating all human interaction. Automation is what lets us scale. It allows a small IT team to
be in charge of hundreds or even thousands of computers. Okay, so
what does that look like in practice? There's a bunch of different tools
that we can use to achieve this. Up next, we'll talk about a type of tool
called configuration management that can help us automate how we manage
the computers in our fleets.