Hi. I'm Lan Haarmann and I'm a Program Management
Director here at Google. During my career journey here, I've supported products like Google Maps and Google Earth and I've had a ton of fun
creating maps for our users. Earlier in my career, I held many different roles that were not project management jobs; bussing tables at a
chain restaurant, interning at the Forest Service, and working as a
business analyst. I was even a software engineer. My journey into
project management has not been the most
straightforward, but it has been fulfilling. Your career journey will
be a unique one as well. Once you complete the
project management program, you'll have a new set of
skills and knowledge that hiring managers look for
in project managers. Deciding what you'd
like to do with all that new knowledge
is an exciting prospect. The great thing about project
management is that it's a life skill that's useful
at almost any organization. Wherever your interests lie, whether that's gaming or biotech or something
totally different, there's a good chance that your desired industry
needs project managers. Finding the right job
takes effort, consistency, and a little expert
advice to help you along the way.
That's why I'm here. Throughout the
program, there will be a collection of
career-based videos included to help you find your next opportunity
in project management. We'll cover some basics, such as building a
resume and interviewing. We'll also include
additional tips for creating an online professional presence through sites like LinkedIn, as well as tips on communicating and interviewing remotely. While you can find a lot of general job search and
career information online, the purpose of these videos
is to give you insight into specific industry
relevant information as it relates to
project management. In addition to what
you have already learned about searching
for these types of roles, I'll offer some of my own tips and best practices
on how to take it a step further to help you navigate through the
job search process, breeze through the interview, and land your next opportunity. Sounds exciting, right? Enjoy the rest of the content, and I'll see you soon.