[MUSIC] Hi my name is Belinda and
I'm a program manager with Google. My role with Google has been building
budgets for the last several years, there's a lot that goes into
building data center budgets. It can take quite some time,
and they're due every year for the renewal of the following
year by September 1st. The budget is entailed of anything you can
think of down to janitorial services for the data center site, all the way to UPS
units to have to run it's battery backup, in case we lose power. So the role that I have had for
several years has been to not only build the budget but to figure out and
work with the team and also vendors, on what money is needed
funding as we grow as a site as well. And for me what I've always done is built
a Google sheet, and I've used that year over year line item by line item, and
I break it down per the account GL, account code, and also with the D
channel that references to that. And basically that is just
the categories of whether we're dealing with mechanical electrical
chillers, maintenance for the lawn RTU units,
mechanical concepts, labor, repairing services to the elevators,
lifts, golf carts, generators. You do a line by line item for
anything that takes a data center to run. So it can be very convoluted and
quite difficult, but I have always found that the Google Sheet
is the best method for my base structure if where I start, currently there's four
managers that I build that budget with. We have a meeting and go over the budgets
to be clear and as transparent you can be to make sure that you've got
everything in there that was requested. What has happened over the years is
what we'll have is we'll have a manager, that will be the lead
with me on the budget. So that when we go to submit the budget,
and we're at a director level meeting,
when we're submitting this, I have a FM manager from the site that
is actually overseeing that budget. It depends on who you're working with,
but they're going to know what their needs are and they can help you understand
when they need those needs, and how much money they need. So for anyone that's looking to go into
project management, budget management, I think that that they really need
to know that they they love math. And they need to also love
change because change happens so often with project management and dealing with budgets because they change
hourly, sometimes they change daily. Sometimes you have a really, really
calm week where everything went like it was supposed to, and
then sometimes it's chaos. For me, I like being busy and
I like change, I'm not afraid of it, but I think that people that would
be interested in this type of role would need to understand
that that's going to be there. So anyone who's starting to build budgets
with Google, it can be quite overwhelming even though with the experience that
I had it was overwhelming for me. And I had to figure out a platform for
me and the sheet that made sense so
I could track it. But I think that the advice I would give
anyone that's starting out with budgets would be take it one day at a time,
you don't learn all in one day it can be overwhelming, but to break it
down maybe and in smaller pieces. [SOUND]