[MUSIC] Hi, my name is Pranjal, and I work as a program manager in
the Site Reliability Engineering org. You can also call it SRE. What SRE does is they
are primarily responsible for all the critical services within Google, and in case something goes wrong, we are the first line of defense. I think I can talk about the first
big project I managed at Google. My tech lead and I co-founded this
project about three years ago, and I continue to work
on it as of right now. So the project of what we wanted to do
in terms of ambition was we wanted to generalize some tooling to help mobile
apps be reliable in production. So what that means is,
let's say you're using a mobile app. We want to make sure that in
case something goes wrong, we detect it before the user does, and we take action before the user even
knows that something's wrong behind the scenes, right? So we started out with this project, and
my biggest fear in terms of working on this project was managing a trade off
between ambition and project quality. So when we did our brainstorming sessions,
and we wrote out a roadmap, it just seemed a bit too overwhelming—the scale at which we
were planning to work. I think I would be really thankful
to my manager at the time. She said, she gave me some really good
advice, she said, "In case you have, let's say, five different tracks
going on in a very big project, not all five tracks have to be
worked on every single day. You could probably take out a quarter and make super-good progress on maybe
track three and track five, whereas you can bootstrap the other
tracks to make progress on it in the next quarter." So that gave me a bit of peace of mind. And she also empowered me
to think in terms of—I'm in a position as a program manager to
push and pull on those priorities. As long as people are aware of what
we're working on, what risks need to be identified and mitigated, and
if everything's being tracked properly, it's okay to maybe accelerate sometimes
and pause sometimes In fact, I learned that zooming out and pausing
sometimes can result in original ideas and then also gives people
a little bit of a breather.