Earlier we talked at length about
identifying and managing risks. Risk management is absolutely
critical to a project success. So in this video, we'll introduce
additional techniques for managing risks. Let's start with a reminder of
the definition of risk management: Risk management is the process of
identifying potential risks and issues which could impact a project,
then evaluating and applying steps to address the effects
of the identified risks and issues. One way to manage risks, and hopefully, prevent any risks from
materializing is to focus on managing the changes and dependencies, as well
as any scope creep in your project. If you can manage those two things,
both changes and dependencies and scope creep, other types
of risks become much easier to manage. If your dependencies are met on time, your team is less likely
to fall behind schedule. If your scope is tightly-managed, you're
less likely to incur changes to your budget or
be forced to extend your timeline. Brainstorming with your team is one
of the most effective techniques for identifying risks in a project. Your teammates likely bring skills and
experience from previous projects, which can help suss out similarities and
keep you from repeating any issues. As we brainstorm with our team,
it's best to create a risk register. As a refresher,
a risk register is a table or chart that contains your
team's list of risks. You want to pose questions
to your team, like what could improve the outcome of the
project, or what could hurt or hinder it? You'll list them all as if/then statements. For example, if a given event happens,
then here's how the project is impacted. To help prioritize risks
within your risk register, you can calculate your risk exposure. Risk exposure is a way
to measure the potential future loss resulting from
a specific activity or event. A good method to calculate risk exposure
is to build a matrix like this one. When building out your matrix,
you'll use two variables: risk impact and probability. Write "risk impact" at the top,
horizontal axis, and write "probability" on the side,
vertical axis. Mark high, medium, and low along each
axis as well, across the top from left to right and
down the side from top to bottom, because that's how you're
going to chart risk exposure. Add each risk to the chart at the cross
section of the impact the risk might have on your project and probability or
likelihood of the risk coming to pass. This is one technique, but
whatever strategy you use to examine your risk exposure,
your risks will need to be prioritized so that you know and your team knows which
ones to give immediate attention to. For anything that has a high impact
on your project, even if it has a low probability of occurring, make sure
to have a mitigation plan in place. How will you handle this risk
if it actually materializes? While a risk register is a great tool, it's still likely that some
unforeseen risk will arise. It's almost impossible to account for every single risk over
the course of a project. That's where the ROAM technique can help. The ROAM technique—which stands for
resolved, owned, accepted, and mitigated—is used to help manage
actions after risks arise. Once a risk has materialized,
you need to decide what to do with it. If a risk has been eliminated and
will not be a problem, it goes into your "resolved" category. If you give a team member ownership over
a certain risk and entrust them to handle it, that risk goes into the "owned" category and is monitored through to completion. If the risk has been "accepted," it has been agreed that nothing will be done about it. Finally, if some action has been taken
such that the risk has been mitigated, either reducing the likelihood
of it occurring or reducing the impact to the project,
it goes into the "mitigated" category. After each risk is placed into a category,
the team will discuss each risk and decide which should be prioritized. Awesome. Now you've learned a bit more about
how to differentiate risks and issues, as well as some new
techniques to manage various risks. Next, we'll learn about how to share
these risks with your stakeholders and a technique called escalation. Sound intriguing? Head to the next video to learn more.