Hello! Welcome to this course called
"Planning: Putting It All Together." If you've already completed our previous
courses, then you have a great foundation for what it takes to initiate a project
and kick off the planning phase. Before we get started,
let me introduce myself. My name is Rowena, and
I'll be your instructor for this course. I work as a senior program manager in
Google Cloud on a variety of projects. I mostly focus on systems and productivity
enhancements for my team, which consists of around 100 full time employees and more
than 300 contractors around the world. Some of the largest-scale projects that
I work on impact Google Cloud sales and global sales support teams, which
are made up of a thousands of people. But I didn't start out
building solutions for thousands of people at a global company. I left school at the age of 17 with
no college degree and no real plan. Before Google, I worked in retail,
hospitality, and even in the airline
industry as a crew member. When I joined the corporate world,
I noticed something. The processes were just as messy as
the stock rooms of the retail stores where I'd worked. There was so much room to improve. I came to realize that every
business is complicated and that there's always room to create order. So I started thinking about ways
to automate my day-to-day tasks. I was emailing ideas to my manager and
colleagues, working with teams across the company, brainstorming solutions
to problems, coordinating training for my coworkers, and so much more. That's when it became clear— I was project managing. I transferred into a role focused entirely
on program management at Google's headquarters in Mountain View, California. In my job interview, I focused on
examples of how I applied these transferable skills from
my previous roles, and how I could leverage the knowledge
I gained from my experience. Four years later, I'm here and I'm so excited to be partnering with
you on this learning journey. From the outside, big, global companies can seem as
though they have it all figured out. But there's always room for new processes,
and you likely have the skills and insights from your previous
experiences that can be useful. So keep going—
you're heading in the right direction. This course is focused
on the planning phase. I'll share the tools and
techniques to complete this phase. First up, I'll demonstrate how
to kick off the planning phase. Then we'll explore the importance
of setting and reaching milestones. For every milestone,
there'll be a set of tasks to complete, so I'll teach you some tips for breaking
down and distributing the workload. Later, we'll discuss the budget and
how the overall budgeting process works. We'll learn about people or companies
outside of your organization that may play a role in determining the budget, and we'll discuss the importance of
sufficiently documenting your budget. Then we'll discuss the various risks and the possible impact those
risks can have on the project. Nothing ever goes quite as planned, but risk management is a great way to make
sure you know what could go wrong and how you'll address it. This includes communicating possible
risks to your stakeholders, creating a mitigation plan, and then keeping an eye on those risks to
make sure they don't stall your projects. Last but not least,
documentation ties it all together. Keeping all your project plans documented
and organized not only helps you, but it also helps those involved
knowing their responsibilities. Documentation also provides stakeholders
with a window into the development of the project. It has always been important to
the success of my own projects at Google, and I'm excited to explore
this topic with you. Ready to get started? Meet you in the next video.