[MUSIC] In the examples of Puppet
code that we've seen so far, we've declared classes
that contain one resource. You might have wondered what
those classes were for. We use these classes to collect
the resources that are needed to achieve a goal in a single place. For example, you could have a class that
installs a package, sets the contents of a configuration file, and starts
the service provided by that package. Let's check out an example like that. In this case, we have a class
with three resources, a package, a file, and a service. All of them are related to
the Network Time Protocol, or NTP, the mechanism our computers
use to synchronize the clocks. Our rules are making sure that
the NTP package is always upgraded to the latest version. We're setting the contents of
the configuration file using the source attribute, which means that the agent
will read the required contents from the specified location. And we're saying that we want the NTP
service to be enabled and running. By grouping all of the resources
related to NTP in the same class, we only need a quick glance to understand
how the service is configured and how it's supposed to work. This would make it easier to make
changes in the future since we have all the related resources together. It makes sense to use this
technique whenever we want to group related resources. For example, you could have a class grouping all
resources related to managing log files, or configuring the time zone, or
handling temporary files and directories. You could also have classes that group all
the settings related to your web serving software, your email infrastructure,
or even your company's firewall. We're just getting started with
Puppet's basic resources and seeing how they can be applied. In further videos, we'll be learning a lot
more about common practices when using configuration management tools. But before jumping into that, we've put
together a reading with more information about Puppet syntax, resources and
links to the official reference. Then we've got a quick quiz to check
that everything is making sense.