[MUSIC] Hi, I'm Stanton, and
I'm a program manager at YouTube. Thinking back to one of the first
projects I ever worked on, we were actually in charge of
building this sports highlight app. But it wasn't just an app,
it was an iOS app, it was an Android app, it was a website. And I remember the very first
meeting I went to, I was just furiously taking down notes and trying to
understand what the heck was going on. And immediately after I thought: okay, this is my first project,
I have to get all the details right. I have to make sure we know every
little thing that was going to happen. The launch date needed to be perfect.
We had to get all the bugs down to zero. I was just totally consumed with getting
everything right the first time. I think what I've realized since then is you're probably not going to get
your first project plan correct because there's just so
many things that can change. You might find a bug last
minute before launch. Your client might come in and
say they want different requirements like, "The screen needs to be
blue instead of red." And then you find out that it's not really
that easy to change from blue to red. If I could go back and
tell myself what to do at that point or what I could have done differently, I would have just told myself:
don't worry so much—changes happen. It's how you react and respond to
those changes that's more important. I think one of the best compliments I've
gotten is, "Even throughout all this mess, you're cool, you're calm, and
you're collected." You think through what
are the issues that have happened, how do we resolve them, and
you do your program management thing. You're not always going to have
the right answer the very first time; things can change at the last minute. If you're able to stay cool and calm, make sure you understand everything
else that's going on on the project. All these years have taught me that,
you can always reuse some things. You're always going to have to react
to some things, but no matter what, try to think proactively, try to figure
out what those issues are going to be, and you'll be the better for it.