Hi there. If you've gone
through our previous courses, you've spent a lot of time digging into the intricacies and significance of setting
up a project for success. And now, we're at the
project execution stage where all of that
hard work comes together. If you haven't gone through
our previous courses yet, we recommend checking them out. Before we get started, let me introduce myself. My name's Elita, and I'll be your instructor
for this course. I work as a Senior Engineering
Program Manager at Google, where I currently
lead the team behind routing and navigation
on Google Maps. I joined the company in 2007, working on teams across Google's engineering
organization in New York, London, and Seattle. In 2013, I joined the Google Maps team and
launched popular features like holiday hours and
attributes on businesses, while leading global teams from New York to Sydney to Hyderabad. Generally, I like solving problems and learning new things. Every new project and team
allows me to do both. I'm excited to lead you
through this course and demonstrate how to put a
project plan into action. First step, you'll
learn more about risks and unforeseen changes
through the project. If you've taken our
previous courses, you might recall that
change is inevitable. And to combat that, we've covered the concept of risk mitigation
during the planning phase. And now we'll take it one step
further and discuss what to do when a risk
actually materializes. Next, I'll discuss
tracking and quality. You'll learn how to
track and measure your project's progress, and
you'll learn how to use continuous improvement and
quality management techniques to keep the project on
track and running smoothly. These best practices are
valuable to just about any role, and I'm looking forward to taking
you through them. Other big aspects of running a project include
decision-making. You'll learn to both
use and analyze data to inform your decision-making,
and then, in turn, use that data to explore and explain key aspects
of your project. I'll also discuss team management and the fundamentals
of influencing. So much of the success
of a project relies on teamwork, and you'll
learn more about how you, as a project manager, can effectively lead your
team to the finish line. Speaking of teamwork, I'll share some of the
tools that provide effective team
communication along with tips for organizing and
facilitating meetings. And then, we'll wrap up by discussing
how to close a project. You'll learn the steps required
to finish a project and the importance of celebrating a job well done with your team. Sounds kind of fun, right? After all that planning, this is the point in the
project life cycle where work gets done and
everything comes together. Ready to get started? Meet me in the next video, where you'll learn
about the importance of tracking and measuring
project progress.