Hi there! It's great to have you back. So far, we've talked about tracking and
measuring project progress. We've also discussed how to manage
quality through different techniques and the benefits of continuous improvement. Now, I'm going to tell you all about
data and data-informed decision making. You'll learn how data impacts decisions, some of which occur
during a project journey. You'll get answers to questions like:
How do I use data in my project? Which types of data should I search for? And how do I determine what
stakeholders need to know? Now, more than ever, we have access to
data at our fingertips on our computers, tablets, and phones. We use data every day to view
the stats of our favorite athletes, examine our screen time on social media,
and monitor our health. Data is a part of our daily lives. Take, for example, online job search sites. These companies collect basic data you
enter—like your previous experience, location, maybe any degrees or
certificates you might hold—and use that information to determine
potential job matches for you. Jobs that don't fit the criteria of what
you entered aren't likely to appear in your suggestions. This is just one way data is used to
inform and influence our decisions. In this module, we'll discuss project data
and how it informs decision-making and helps to prevent both major and
minor issues. We'll also discuss how project-related
data can be used to reach success metrics. We'll go over common project data, such
as tasks and issues, and discuss how analyzing this data and other metrics
impacts project productivity and quality. Finally, we'll demonstrate how
data isn't just about numbers. You can also tell a unique
story using the power of data. Storytelling offers a memorable way
to communicate important aspects of your project. Pairing storytelling
with data can convince stakeholders of ways to resolve problems
and ensure a successful outcome. So data certainly has its benefits. There's a lot to learn about data, and we'll lay out some of the basics so
you can confidently tackle your projects. Ready to get started? Let's get to it in the next video.